<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>XSL Results README</title>
<style>
.roman-list {list-style-type: lower-alpha;}
</style>
</head>

<body>
<div id="content">
<h1>Licenses</h1>
<p>The XSL Results extension (not including the OS detection taken from
<a target="_blank" href="http://www.quirksmode.org/js/detect.html">http://www.quirksmode.org/js/detect.html</a> as stated at
<a target="_blank" href="http://www.quirksmode.org/about/copyright.html">http://www.quirksmode.org/about/copyright.html</a> allows one to "copy, tweak, rewrite,
sell or lease any code example on this site, with one single exception...The Usable
Forms script", the exists() function excerpt published in fileUtils.js is from
<a target="_blank" href="http://jslib.mozdev.org/">http://jslib.mozdev.org/</a> (Mozilla Public License 1.1)) is licensed under the MIT license.</p>

<p>This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.</p>

<hr />

<h1>Introduction</h1>

<p>This extension lets you attach XSL files (whether through the 
"file:///" protocol, through a local file (e.g., "C:\..."), through a URL 
(i.e., "http://..."), or through a manually typed XSL file) to the 
currently displayed XML (or HTML) file.</p>

<h2>Operating System requirements</h2>
<p>The code is known to work on Windows. If anyone can help to test
to make sure it works correctly on other systems, please contact 
me (brettz9 A-T the well-known site Yahoo.com).</p>

<h2>Known issues:</h2>
<ol>
<li>XSLT 2.0's &lt;xsl:result-document> element is not supported.</li>
<li>Built-in processor will not work for XSL files with 
	 &lt;xsl:include> or &lt;xsl:import> statements.</li>
<li>Due to changes in FF3 (at least b2), one can not paste 
	directly (e.g., a URL) into the file browser textbox, but it is 
	possible if done through the file dialog (at least on Windows).</li>
</ol>

<h2>Choice of XSLT processor</h2>
<p>You can currently only use Firefox's built-in XSLT processor.</p>

<h1>Performing a transformation via the XSL Dialog</h1>

<ol>
<li>Choose <b>Get XSL Results</b> from the <b>Tools menu</b> to open the XSL Results window.
<br /><br />
If you wish to perform a transformation on the currently loaded window/tab in Firefox, be sure 
to <b>wait until the document  has fully loaded</b> before activating the XSL Results window, 
or otherwise you will not be able 
to transform the full text of that document and you will mostly likely get well-formedness errors. 
However, you are always free to edit the source XML document after loading the XSL Results window.
<br /><br />
Be aware that due to either a bug or a feature in Firefox, in serialization, HTML gets converted
(normalized) to upper case, so be aware that <b>XSL Results will convert HTML tag names all back 
into lower case</b> so that your transformations can use the more standard lower case tag names 
(whether or not the original document did or not). True XML files, including 
<abbr title="eXtensible Hypertext Markup Language">XHTML</abbr> (served as application/xhtml+xml) 
will be left alone: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.mozilla.org/docs/web-developer/faq.html#xhtmldiff">http://www.mozilla.org/docs/web-developer/faq.html#xhtmldiff</a>).

<br /><br />
The extension will also attempt to <b>fix the resulting code so that 
specially (or poorly) crafted HTML will become well-formed XML when converted 
into  Firefox's DOM representation</b>. For example, comments of the form 
&lt;!--- which have an extra hyphen, while still
preserved as such by Firefox in its inner representation of such documents,
will be converted by this extension into the well-formed style &lt;!-- so 
as to allow the XSLT engine to be able to transform such documents
without running into errors.
<br /><br />

There are also recommended options in preferences (turned on by default) which may <b>strip the 
DTD</b> (recommended as explained in 
the interface). (DTD/schema validation of source documents is turned off for BDBXML.) If the 
automated options are off, you will still have a chance to click a 
button to strip the DTDs (if a DTD is present). 

HTML DTD's can often cause problems as 
SGML-style DTD's differ from XML ones, so these are stripped by default. Automatic DTD stripping 
is on by default for  XML as well as for HTML because it is redundant for true 
<abbr title="eXtensible Hypertext Markup Language">XHTML</abbr> (Firefox relies on built-in 
entities) and since other XML documents dependent on the external DTD will currently trigger 
a parsing error in Firefox anyhow (in such a case, you can manually paste in the source of 
the current document). Be aware that if you paste in your own XML, the DTD will not be 
automatically stripped (in such a case, the DTD IS needed for entities and default attributes 
if you have any, but if you don't have them, it is unnecessary, slower, and taxes the server 
hosting the DTD).
<br /><br />
</li>
<li>Choose whether to also have <b>output produced in a new window</b> and choose <b>what file extension
you want the resulting file to possess</b>. If this is made blank, an &lt;xsl:output> element may be
used to determine the extension type.
<br /><br />
</li>
<li><b>Choose or add your XSL file.</b>
<br /><br />
You have the choice of <b>loading an external file</b> for the XSL stylesheet or to <b>paste or type the text 
in</b> directly.
<br /><br />
</li>
<li><b>Hit 'Transform'</b> on the dialog. Be aware that depending on the complexity of your 
transformation, on whether you are loading files over the network, and on whether you left the
checkbox on to save the current file, it may take a while to process, but 
eventually the contents should appear in the XML Output textbox and if the option is selected,
a new window should open with the results of your transformation. If the window 
is blank, consider that you may need to view the textbox contents or "Page source" of the document.
<br /><br />
Note that any time you hit 'Transform', the <b>window and splitter positions will be saved</b> for next time. 
The same behavior occurs by hitting 'Ok', but that will not perform a transformation.
Any time most of the other fields are changed, they will be retained in memory the next time the window is opened.
</li>
</ol>


<h1>Obtaining the resultant code of an already transformed document loaded in the 
current FF tab/window</h1>
<ul>
<li>There is also a context menu item available to immediately grab the 
transformation results of the current XML document (using Firefox's built-in XSLT 
processor) with an already-attached stylesheet and places the results in a 
textbox (achieves a similar effect as the built-in (yet-not-so-easily-discoverable) 
Firefox behavior of selecting-all on an XML document and choosing "View selection 
source").</li>

</ul>

<h1>Acknowledgments</h1>

<p>This extension was initially generated by the Extension Wizard at
<a href="http://ted.mielczarek.org/code/mozilla/extensionwiz/">http://ted.mielczarek.org/code/mozilla/extensionwiz/</a>.</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>